Blog Sentry support on Debezium Docker images (#324)
debezium/debezium.github.io: blog/2019-07-04-tutorial-sentry-debezium-docker.adoc

= Tutorial for adding Sentry into Debezium Docker images
renatomefi
:awestruct-tags: [ sentry, docker ]
:awestruct-layout: blog-post

> Debezium has received a huge Docker structure improvement in the https://debezium.io/blog/2019/06/03/debezium-0-10-0-alpha2-released/[previous release], making it extremely simple to extend its behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debezium has received a huge improvement to the structure of its container images link:/blog/2019/06/03/debezium-0-10-0-alpha2-released/[recently], making it extremely simple to extend its behavior.
```

> This is a small tutorial showing how you can for instance, add Sentry for reporting exceptions from Kafka Connect and its Connectors. Note that this is only applicable for Debezium 0.9+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a small tutorial showing how you can for instance, add Sentry for reporting exceptions from Kafka Connect and its connectors. Note that this is only applicable for Debezium 0.9+.
```

Reviewer: Could you add a sentence on what Sentry is and what it is used for?

Note we added `Sentry` to `log4j.rootLogger` and created the section `log4j.appender.Sentry`, the rest remains as the original configuration:

[source,config]
----
kafka.logs.dir=logs

log4j.rootLogger=INFO, stdout, appender, Sentry

# Disable excessive reflection warnings - KAFKA-5229
log4j.logger.org.reflections=ERROR

log4j.appender.stdout=org.apache.log4j.ConsoleAppender
log4j.appender.stdout.threshold=INFO
log4j.appender.stdout.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.stdout.layout.ConversionPattern=%d{ISO8601} %-5p  %X{dbz.connectorType}|%X{dbz.connectorName}|%X{dbz.connectorContext}  %m   [%c]%n

log4j.appender.appender=org.apache.log4j.DailyRollingFileAppender
log4j.appender.appender.DatePattern='.'yyyy-MM-dd-HH
log4j.appender.appender.File=${kafka.logs.dir}/connect-service.log
log4j.appender.appender.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.appender.layout.ConversionPattern=%d{ISO8601} %-5p  %X{dbz.connectorType}|%X{dbz.connectorName}|%X{dbz.connectorContext}  %m   [%c]%n

log4j.appender.Sentry=io.sentry.log4j.SentryAppender
log4j.appender.Sentry.threshold=WARN

----

=== Sentry.io SSL certificate

> https://docs.sentry.io/ssl/ download the `getsentry.pem` file and put it in your project's directory under `ssl/` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the `getsentry.pem` file from https://docs.sentry.io/ssl/ and put it in your project's directory under `ssl/`.
```

=== The Dockerfile

Now we can glue everything together in our Debezium image:

> - Let's first create a JKS file with our sentry certificate, this uses a Docker multi-stage building process, where we are generating a `certificates.jks` which later we copy into our Kafka Connect with Debezium stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Let's first create a JKS file with our Sentry certificate; this uses a Docker multi-stage building process, where we are generating a `certificates.jks` which we'll later copy into our Kafka Connect with Debezium stage
```

- Copy `log4j.properties` into `$KAFKA_HOME/config/log4j.properties`

> - Copy the jks from the multi-stage build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy the JKS file from the multi-stage build
```

- Set ENV with the Sentry version and m5sums

> - Download Sentry dependencies, the script you see called `docker-maven-download` is a helper which we ship by default in our images, in this case we're setting it to download a jar file from the maven central and put it in the Kafka libs directory, we do that by setting the ENV var `MAVEN_DEP_DESTINATION=$KAFKA_HOME/libs`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Download Sentry dependencies, the script you see called `docker-maven-download` is a helper which we ship by default in our images.
In this case we're using it to download a JAR file from Maven Central and put it in the Kafka libs directory.
We do that by setting the ENV var `MAVEN_DEP_DESTINATION=$KAFKA_HOME/libs`:
```

[source,dockerfile,docker]
----
FROM fabric8/java-centos-openjdk8-jdk:1.6 as ssl-jks

ARG JKS_STOREPASS="any random password, you can also set it outside via the arguments from docker build"

USER root:root

COPY /ssl /ssl

RUN chown -R jboss:jboss /ssl

USER jboss:jboss

WORKDIR /ssl  

RUN keytool -import -noprompt -alias getsentry \
    -storepass "${JKS_STOREPASS}" \
    -keystore certificates.jks \
    -trustcacerts -file "/ssl/getsentry.pem"

FROM debezium/connect:0.10 AS kafka-connect

EXPOSE 8083

COPY config/log4j.properties "$KAFKA_HOME/config/log4j.properties"

COPY --from=ssl-jks --chown=kafka:kafka /ssl/certificates.jks /ssl/

ENV SENTRY_VERSION=1.7.23 \
    MAVEN_DEP_DESTINATION=$KAFKA_HOME/libs

RUN docker-maven-download central io/sentry sentry "$SENTRY_VERSION" 4bf1d6538c9c0ebc22526e2094b9bbde && \
    docker-maven-download central io/sentry sentry-log4j "$SENTRY_VERSION" 74af872827bd7e1470fd966449637a77

----

=== Build and run

Now we can simply build the image:

[source,bash]
----
$ docker build -t debezium/connect-sentry:1 --build-arg=JKS_STOREPASS="123456789" .
----

> When running the image we have now to configure our Kafka Connect application to load the JKS by setting `KAFKA_OPTS: -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore=/ssl/certificates.jks -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=123456789`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running the image we have now to configure our Kafka Connect application to load the JKS file by setting `KAFKA_OPTS: -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStore=/ssl/certificates.jks -Djavax.net.ssl.trustStorePassword=<YOUR TRUSTSTORE PASSWORD> `.
```

> In case you don't know where to put this variable or how to setup our Docker setup, please https://debezium.io/docs/tutorial/#starting_docker[check our tutorial].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you'd like to learn more about using the Debezium container images, please link:/docs/tutorial/#starting_docker[check our tutorial].
```

> That's it, this is basically a recipe for extending our Docker setup using Sentry as an example, other modifications should also be as simple as this one.

Reviewer: How about adding a screenshot from Sentry, showing how it reports an exception? It's always nice to have something visual.

Author: Done :)

== Conclusion

> It's now very easy to download anything from maven and ship it correctly, extending the images became a trivial task and we'd love to hear your feedback about it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the recent refactor of the Debezium container images, it got very easy to amend them with your custom extensions.
Downloading external dependencies and adding them to the images became a trivial task and we'd love to hear your feedback about it!
```

> If you are curious about the Debezium Docker images refactor: https://github.com/debezium/docker-images/pull/131[debezium/docker-images#131],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are curious about the refactoring itself, you can find the details in pull request https://github.com/debezium/docker-images/pull/131[debezium/docker-images#131].
```
